This is Jockel podcast number 283 with echo Charles and me. Jockel willing good evening echo.
Good evening.
Jumping into combat lessons. We've done some combat lessons before. We've done volumes
one two and three on this podcast. I'm skipping ahead a little bit to volume seven.
There's a section here that I kind of got kind of got into. These combat lessons were written
during World War II with the explicit intention of disseminating lessons learned rapidly
back to the troops to keep more guys alive and kill more enemy. And you might think
and I started thinking like why am I reviewing these? Why am I reviewing number four?
Why am I doing that? I'll tell you why. Because I've never heard these lessons before.
Think about that. I was in the military for 20 years and I never heard these lessons before.
There's something wrong with that. There's something wrong with that. These guys,
these are lessons written in blood in the hardest combat imaginable.
And they're not in the past on. So I want to make sure I pass on these lessons. And you know what?
Obviously, they're not just for combat. Not just for combat. You're going to see the translation
to every situation that a human being and a leadership position can be in.
So combat lessons. The volumes are getting better. So the first one was kind of like a little
bit. I'm not going to say it was half-hazardly put together. But now you got the full
cover picture. You know, they're if you're looking at this on YouTube, you got the cover picture up.
They're combat lessons. Combat lessons number seven, rank and file and combat. What they do,
what they are doing and how they do it. The intro to this thing, to this book, comes from,
I'll just read it. Our armies in Europe have won their victory. So this is late in the war.
Victory in Europe already. So now we're just fighting in the Pacific theater.
Veterans of the campaigns of North Africa and Europe are now joining forces with the veterans of
the Pacific for the final assault against Japan. Can you imagine having that on the horizon?
You're thinking, okay, we're going final assault on Japan on the Japanese Empire. We're going
to kill all of them because they fight to the death. That's what's about to happen.
They don't, they don't know anything about the atomic bomb yet. That's not even an option.
They've seen the Japanese fight to the death on island after island. And now they're going to go
and assault the Japanese island itself. The island of Japan. Back to the book, they are coming
to grips with a folk quite different from the German soldier, different as an individual fighting
man and different in the tactics employed. Even the most experienced soldier of the European battlefields
will have much to learn. Humility. You imagine you get done with Normandy, the D-Day, the Battle
of the Bulge and you show up in the Pacific theater. You got a lot to learn, kid.
Dang. We must now bring to bear against the Japanese all the experience we have gained in every
theater. The suggestions made in combat lessons are drawn from such expert experience. Since to be
effective, they must reach the soldier promptly. Publication is not delayed to ensure that they
always represent the thoroughly digested views of the war department. The great combat lesson
learned from every operation is the importance of leadership. Our equipment, our supply and above
our men are splendid. Aggressive and determined leadership is the priceless factor which inspires
a command and upon which success all success in battle depends. It is responsible for success or failure.
Leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield. By the way, signed by General Marshall,
five star general. Three, no, four, no, five star general. Churchill called General Marshall,
the organizer of victory. The organizer of victory of World War II. Let's think about that. That's
a pretty good compliment coming from Churchill. This is a guy that was a platoon in a company commander
in the Philippine war. Ended up being a secretary state. Remember to learn about the Marshall
plan? Well, when you were in high school at some point you learned about the Marshall plan. You
just don't remember it. It was like the World War II. It was the recovery. The rebuilding
after World War II oversees in Europe that the Marshall plan named after this guy. He got a no
bell piece for us for that. By the way, a very capable man. So kicking it into the book here,
leadership. First section, leadership. Too much stress cannot be placed upon the necessity for
developing intelligent aggressive troop leaders in all echelons. So says General Omar Bradley
Commander of the 12th Army Group. I want to say that again, too much stress cannot be placed.
There's no way you can stress the necessity for developing intelligent aggressive troop leaders
and where in all echelons, in all echelons, squad leaders. However, to use the battlefield as a
school room for the training of leaders is to sacrifice needlessly the lives of our men, the habit
of command and the technique of troop leading must be learned thoroughly by all leaders prior to
entry in combat. Not only must leaders learn their own jobs thoroughly, but they must also be given
ample opportunity to operate in the command capacity of the next higher echelon in order that
qualified replacements will be available. So if you're running a business, I said there's some
similarities. If you're running a business and you're not investing in your leadership, you're wrong.
And throwing them out to the wolves, throwing them out to the clients, throw them out to a building
site without any training and preparation or without any mentorship while they're out there is the wrong
move. By the way, that's why echelon front actually exists. That's why we exist to help that process
take place. The junior leaders responsibility, field leaders constantly emphasize the need for junior
officers who will share the responsibilities of their superiors and take charge when emergencies arise
in battle. Check this out. Here's a note. You're young. You're new to the company. You're inexperienced
in some way or another way. If you have the willingness to pay attention and then start taking
responsibility and start taking ownership of things, you will go places. Now look, you got to be,
you don't want to go overboard with it. But if you see your boss has got some things that maybe
you could take over for, take them over. Have a question. Go. But extreme ownership and this
might be splitting hairs, but in the spirit of understanding. So let's say whatever you come to me
and or whatever. I'm taking ownership of a mistake that happened. What if I do, I am like,
I'm not blaming you, but I am defensive. I am whatever. I am all that, but I actually do at the end of
the lecture or whatever. I do want to, at the end of the day, I do think that the mistake was my
fall 100% and I'm going to take it upon myself to fix the mistake. But I handled the initial
lecture wrong. Is that still technically extreme ownership? Why am I lecturing you? I don't know.
Like a, you know, I messed up the project. Okay, you know, failed the project. And then
I come to you and say, hey, echo, it looks like we're not going to get this project done on time.
Yeah. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. Like, or let's say we straight up didn't fail. Okay. Oh,
echo, I see that we failed to get this project done. Yeah. Did you get the support that you
need? Is there anything that I should have done a better job up to make sure you had what you need
to get this thing done? Because this is a big let down for the client. Yeah. And this is in the
kind of reputation we're looking to have. Where did I let you down? Okay. So that's a you take
ownership, right? Extreme, you know, and you're like, okay. So what if instead of that good
lecture, you were like, hey, you messed up and you, you know, like you did this in a go.
Yeah, go. You failed this project. That's pathetic. I'm thinking about maybe
demoting you. Yeah. And then let's say, okay, after you lecture me, you think in your head,
you know what? This is my fault. This actually is my fault. And I'm going to do everything I can
to to correct this. You do after you lecture me the law with you, but then I realize I'm wrong. Yes.
And then I said, you know what? There's some things I could have problems with. No, you don't say
that part. Okay. You don't say nothing to me. You just kind of at you. Basically the whole thing
you learned the lesson. You failed the first part, but it's like, you know, you do the
car. You failed the first one, but you succeed in the second one. Okay. But then I opt
not to take ownership for some reason. With your verbal, it's a wrong idea. You can see where
you can see where this is. What's interesting about these questions that you're trying to formulate
is how quickly they dissipate when the person legitimately takes ownership. Right. All, like when I
said, okay, so I say to you, hey, echo, where did I not support you? All of a sudden, you didn't even
have an argument. You didn't have a question anymore. It was gone. You had to get me to say thing
wrong to you. Yes. And then you want me to like switch halfway because I'm just a crazy person.
So that's what we're at right now. Which is fine. Okay. So what's the hypothetical point that we're
trying to get out? Well, I guess if I if I learned anything from you right now and in the past,
it is that if you're going to take ownership extreme, well, if you're going to demonstrate that
practice that, there's two parts of it and that's sort of it. There's two parts of it. You the way you
come at the person or whatever, you let them know that it's your fault kind of thing. And then the second
part is you for real, it is your fault in your mind. It is. It is your responsibility to take action
to fix those problems. Not the kind of one that's in your question is when I come at you and say,
you failed this project, you go, well, you're a big project. So you get defensive at first, right?
Yes, because you take it the wrong way. And you don't remember to take ownership for another two minutes.
The whole thing, the whole time you forget to take ownership and the last two minutes, you know what you do?
You go, you know what, you know what boss, I'm getting defensive because my ego is getting in the way.
And this is actually my fault. And all these excuses that I'm making right now make no sense whatsoever.
Here's the mistakes I made. Here's the things I'm going to do to fix it. I will not let this happen again.
Yeah, I'll get all myself. Yeah. So without that second recovery part, I'm talking about the interaction between the two people.
Mm-hmm. That alone not that subsequent actions that you're going to take to solve the problem. I'm not talking about that because you're going to do that anyway.
Yeah. But that second verbal part interaction part without that that technically does not fit. Does not fulfill the formula of extreme ownership.
What do you mean without that second part? Which second part? The part where you're, where you explain to the person that you have the interaction with?
Like, all of that was my fault. And my ego's getting away. Like not that part.
Straight up, you left the meeting straight up like we got scolded. Oh, whatever. Then, and then you say,
this wasn't my fault and you leave. Yeah. Yeah. You have to take ownership of that.
That's the point of extreme ownership. Right in your mind, you're like, wait, it is my fault.
Yeah, then you go back and then you say, hey, this is, that's what I'm saying.
Okay, you do that. The interaction is part of the, yes. Yes, it is.
You have to, I mean, otherwise you're just making excuses and blame another people. And I don't trust you by the way.
Yeah. I'm like, oh, echo screwed this up, but he isn't even realized that he screws up.
He thinks it's a devil and else is fault. He doesn't take ownership. Cool. I'm never given him another project again.
Whereas you come back and he said, you know what, boss, this is, this is completely my fault.
And then I let my ego get in the way. And I got mad. My temper and my ego.
I will not let that happen again. Boom.
Problem solved. I understand. Check.
All right. Moving on.
Comments, major general John P. Lucas commander of six core. Prior to battle, we must develop the feeling of
responsibility and junior officers and non-commissioned officers develop the feeling of responsibility.
We want to give them ownership. I suggest doing this during field exercises by suddenly an
and unexpectedly declaring the commander a casualty and placing the second in command in charge.
Something did all the time in seal training. Oh, got a good platoon commander. He's doing a great job. Cool.
You're down. Oh, platoon chiefs doing a super job. Cool. You're down.
But commanding officer of the 119th Infantry in Germany makes this statement in battle. Nothing is
more important than having leaders who will share their commanders responsibility for the accomplishment
of the mission. Again, if you're a junior person out there, if you're joining an organization or
you're a mid-level manager, if you can be a person that starts to take ownership of things
and starts to take pressure and jobs and tasks and responsibilities off your bosses play,
they are going to love you. Nothing more important. He says. Nothing more important than having
leaders that will take their share of the commanders of responsibility. One of the most difficult
tasks for the junior leader is getting the men to move forward under fire. Issuing the orders is
easy, but seeing that the orders are carried out may call for every ounce of energy and initiative
the officer or NCO possesses. Issuing the orders is easy. That's easy, Bart. I think Paton said
10% of the job is issuing orders. 90% is getting them done. Responsible leadership in actions
the next section. Captain Souter was at his command post CP when a soldier came into report that
two wiremen had been wounded by an enemy sniper about 500 yards away. He immediately took four men
and set out to assist the wounded men. Before arriving at their goal, the captain and his men
observed a group of wiremen pinned down in an open field by enemy machine gun fire. Captain Souter
spotted the enemy machine gun and ordered his men to cover positions but himself took an
exposed position from which he could fire upon the machine gun. He opened fire suddenly and killed
six of the enemy crew making it possible for the wounded men to be evacuated in safety and for the
wiremen to continue their work. By that time, Captain Souter had observed more serious trouble
in the vicinity. An enemy armored car was part-beside a building some distance away.
The captain knew that part of another advancing regiment was in the sector covered by the enemy
vehicle. He immediately sent back for a 50 caliber machine gun at the command post and for two
tanks to cover the oncoming regiment during its approach. While waiting for these reinforcements he
collected a few of his men and resumed fire on the enemy with the result that many were forced to
flee an 18 enemy were wounded. While this was going on, Captain Souter was informed that all officers
of one company with the approaching regiment had become casualties. He immediately took charge
and reorganized the company so at the when the other officers came up, the unit was well dispersed
and under control. He then gave first aid to the wounded officer officers and saw that they were
evacuated to a safer location for further care. The tanks arrived in time to assist the other
regiments assault on the enemy positions and the objective was successfully taken. Had it not been
for Captain Souter's timely and decisive actions, casualties among our men would have been extremely
heavy and the attainment of the objective questionable. First contribution in this emergency,
Captain Souter was awarded the Silver Star.
Initiative taking charge. I love this part where he got wounded as a company coming forward and
they're wounded officers so you disperse your company and you prepare to receive those guys
and you're able to put him to work immediately. Responsible leadership as the soldier sees it.
Another final example of responsible and inspiring leadership is given in the following account
of the part played by Lieutenant William E. Everett, 101st Infantry, 36 Division A in action in
Italy. This account was written by three of the enlisted men who served under him during that
action. Our company led the attack on a hill and took it. The enemy counter attacked laying down heavy
artillery, mortar and machine gun fire that knocked out a large number of our men and every officer
except Lieutenant Everett. Lieutenant Everett took over the difficult and dangerous job of keeping
the company under control without any communications whatever. He had become so short of men
that even the runners had to stay on the line fighting hard to help hold the ground we had won.
At the time Lieutenant Everett took charge the enemy were coming up three sides of the hill
and our men were in trouble. The Lieutenant ordered us to open fire with everything we had
while he took an exposed position on the side of the hill and called fire orders to our mortar.
Our mortar finally stopped the advancing enemy. He then located an enemy mortar that had been
giving us trouble all day and adjusted our mortar on it. Notking it out with a direct hit on the
third ground. He personally eliminated two enemy snipers who had wounded several of our men.
It was largely through his daring and determination that we were able to beat off the strong
enemy counter attacks. For three days and four nights he risked his life by going from one
platoon to another under enemy machine gun fire keeping the men under control and helping them
meet each problem as it came. At times he himself helped carry the wounded to save for places.
The Lieutenant was sick during all this fighting yet he never thought of his own discomfort but
stuck by the men who might have lost out if he had not been for his leadership.
Leadership is the most important thing on the battlefield.
Next section discipline the first function of leadership.
You know I'm happy and smiling when I see that. In the frequent discussions of battlefield
leadership we are often prone to overlook the first function of leadership. The development of
unit and individual discipline. The battle is the payoff.
Said Lieutenant Colonel Ralph Ingersall and it is exactly that. The payoff on the leadership
which welded individuals into a smoothly functioning team. Discipline applies to all
Captain Jack Gary company commander of the 11th Infantry writes. Discipline is sometimes
the determining factor between winning and losing.
I once listened to a wounded officer back from fighting in Africa who said forget all the
formalities in the field forget the officer and NCO distinctions in the field. Keep all the
eight balls they will fight like hell and I tried to look up this term eight balls and
I assume it means like a like a rebel type guy. The reason I assume that is because the next sentence says
so that that was the guy quoting someone from Africa. He says I do not believe he had seen very
much action or he would not have made such a statement. I had a few quote eight balls who did
fight like hell but I have also had a lot of men who never caused me trouble who were quiet,
confident, well disciplined and these men fought much better. So you know you get that in case of
war, break glass thing where look this guy's little rough around the edges.
Yeah it seemed like when he was like I also had guys who were quite calm discipline whatever
it just seemed like this eight ball phenomenon was the opposite of that. They're like the trouble
makers. They're a little bit a little bit wild. Now look gotta have those guys too. We're going to need
those guys and they do have it. They can be awesome for sure because you gotta have a little bit of that.
I mean let's face it if you're joining the military. If you're joining the military to
go into combat arms or you're joining the military to go in special operations you're going in
that you want to do something that's you basically want to do things that are not legal in the world.
That's like you're going to kill people you're going to blow things up you're going to plant
bombs that's what you're going to do. You can't really do that anywhere. Yes that's you know you're
a kid and you're like what do I want to do when I grow up doctor. Boyer. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah.
Blow things up and kill people. That sounds like a good one. Right? That's not normal.
And just an answer.
Had a conversation with a guy the other day and he was like telling me that
he was having a conversation with a guy that was a seal and he's like, you know there's
something that made me nervous. Because when this guy was a young seal he said you know I
I was asking him, you know you you think you're ready to kill people and you know you're
going to deploy and this was kind of as Iraq was going on and this was like a younger seal that was
going to be heading to Iraq and the young seal was like oh yeah I'm ready I want to kill people
and he's you know the guy says you know just seemed a little bit seems like it shouldn't be like that
and I was like it's like that bro. I go you know you know a frontline infantry grunt whatever
well I can't I can't speak for all of them. You talk to most of Asmajority of seals
and you say hey if the enemy presents themselves an opportunity if the enemy if there's an
opportunity for you to kill the enemy will you be happy the right word will you be will you hesitate
in the moment truth I'll be like one negative nobody's stoked so that's the reality so
there's a little eight ball you know let's face it. He's down for the cost yeah now that's that's
the thing is the the very good soldier that you want has that capability but has the discipline
to keep it under control the whole the little clip you made of Jordan Peterson and I talking about
the the the good man is a dangerous man who has their their their danger and their aggression
under control under through discipline all in Terry control that's what what are looking for
that's what are looking for yeah actually that's what we're looking for
next section discipline is based upon competence only a few hours later after he had lost
both legs in combat lieutenant tickinore who had acted as a platoon leader in fifth division 12
army group made this comment to a military observer our officers have to be real leaders
discipline in combat depends largely upon the men's knowing that the officer in charge of them
knows his business and is not reluctant reluctant to take necessary risks. A batiling commander
of the sixth armor division in France makes a similar combat comment unless the officer or
NCO knows his job completely the men have no faith in him unless the men have faith in their
leaders their battle discipline will be poor so when they're talking about discipline there they're like
are you is the team going to knew what they need to do when they get when they get the orders to do it
and if they have faith in the leader they'll do it and if they don't guess what which is interesting
because you think well you know it's a military it's a military and if they get ordered do something
no that's what they're talking about here that's what they're talking about it doesn't work like
that doesn't work like that anywhere just because I bark in order you and I have rank over you
doesn't mean you're going to do it especially if it's going to get you killed there's a comment here
and in these books they just they the sort of the authority times in the author whoever the author is
the the author's chime in and they just write comment and it says comment a leader who is not
gained the respect respect and confidence of his men during training has two strikes again and
when he against him when he answers combat the element of doubt in the minds of his men
may be the difference between success and failure of a mission gaining respect and confidence
of your men how do you do that do you that by barking out of no do you that by yelling out of no
you do that by listening you do that by treating them with respect
here is a definition of discipline says Colonel E. L. Montz and Signal Corps true discipline is
voluntary it is based on knowledge region a sense of duty and idealism a good leader
develops in his men a cheerful and willing obedience that wants to respond that wants to carry out
his orders this kind of discipline will in the end bring combat results as no other kind possibly
can we could probably stop right here because everyone thinks when the military talks about discipline
they're talking about the what if you can beat your people into submission
then you're going to be good to go no that's not the kind of discipline we're talking about
cheerful willing obedience that's a totally different thing willing obedience people want to carry out
the orders you know totally different you don't really think of discipline associated with cheerful
yeah you the context that they're using is military discipline is like hey do the does the team
respond and execute what they're told to do with discipline right so in the context of that
we there's multiple ways to achieve that one of them is by beating people that you're going to
do this and you beat them and they're afraid and they're doing it out of fear the other way is
they're doing it because they understand because they're part of it the result is the result is similar
but what this guy is saying is that the one that will bring combat results like no other kind
is the kind where it's a positive discipline yeah when they say it's a self imposed discipline
we're doing this because we want to not because someone's barking at us this little section here
it's a replacement instruction the wrong kind so in in in in world war two you had guys get wounded
guys get killed and there was replacements coming in and so this happens inside all organizations
as organizations grow you got to bring a new people and as new people come in what happens to
replacement orientation right this is like new hires how do you treat your new hires
here's some things that they did it's called the wrong kind a lieutenant comments on his ominous
introduction to frontline existence on my way to the front as an officer replacement I met several
individuals who had come back from the front line invariably they recounted to me their hair raising
experiences their outfits had been wiped out or pinned down for days officers didn't have a
dog's chance of survival etc one puttune sergeant went statistical on me he said his puttune
lost 16 officers in one two week period I expected confidently that I would be blown to bits
within 15 minutes after my arrival to the front went statistical on yeah that's what you know they're
going hard yeah later experiences shown me that enlisted men who come in as replacements are
subjected to similar morale breaking tales I've tried to get my old men to give the new
replacement a break by being careful not to exaggerate their battle experiences or in any way
distort the picture of frontline existence give the new men a common sense introduction to the
combat zone and there will be fewer men going on sick call before an attack noncombs and privates
of company K 11th Infantry draw attention to the same problem our replacements come to us
filled with tension and dread caused by stories they have heard in the rear special instructors from
the front should be used as at replacement centers to talk to the new men to talk the new men
out of this unnecessary panic of course the soundest remedy is to have the replacements occupied
defensive position for a time but even then the kind of treatment they are given upon arrival
at the front makes a big difference in the amount of good they will do to their new outfit
so how are we treating people at show up at your company and you can have such a huge influence
if you do a good job bringing someone on board in a squared away manner don't screw it up
comment company commanders and platoon leaders should meet orient and indoctrinated
all replacements so they gain an authentic picture of current battle conditions this should be done
even though battle indoctrination has been started in replacement centers knowing what to expect
even when the expected is bad is better than not knowing and consequently imagining the worst
that's what's going to happen we're going to freak out and and part of this is I think on intentional
when people tell stories right if you're to tell me let's say you were in a jiu jitsu tournament and
you wanted to tell me about something that happened that happened to you maybe you got caught
negating and look your congregating and it was bad right and you got out of it but it was
a crazy when you when you want to tell me that you want to make me feel how you felt and one of the
ways you can kind of get closer is by making a little exaggeration but I started seeing I started
the wall started coming in and it might not necessarily I understand what you're doing I understand
why you're doing it but you weren't really going to get choked out you're just in a good
guet teen but it wasn't good enough because obviously you got out so people can exaggerate for the purpose
of of of giving the feelings that they had you know this mortar like I've been murdered before
mortar hits mortar hits I don't know I don't know what the closest mortar to me ever was but
maybe let's call it 20 yards or something like that so that's close bro that rocks your world
you're like damn and if I'm just telling you this bro I got mortar I want you to feel like so I might
be stupid I'm practically right on top of me it's 20 yards away bro yeah yeah you're right and if you
don't kind of take a lot of times we'll take that personal you know like fine don't don't lie
don't lie to me and exaggerate like that you know like be accurate kind of thing but you can
when you really think about it it makes sense because if you're like unless you're some if you got
mortar like a thousand times you know when it's 20 yards you know oh you don't have to exaggerate
to me because I know but you know most people yeah yeah if I was talking to someone else
be like oh bro you've been mortar for oh yeah oh yeah I was over here oh yeah
man this one landed close it was like 20 yards away you'd be like damn I don't need to explain it
to you but if you don't know yeah exactly then I start making you know I start making it
like a little bit well basically you want them to understand how you might exactly but because and
they don't they don't have the capability to understand what you felt because they weren't there
you know something you can imagine like oh yeah if I was there I do this like you have a
misrepresentation of how it would actually feel in the situation that's natural exactly right but
when you're in the situation yeah you can tell me I've never been mortar before and I know so
pricing but I haven't if you were like hey yeah we got mortar and it was crazy it was 20 yards away
I'd be like I know how 20 that's not that close that's like I'd be all right oh yeah whatever that's
like half of a 40 yard dash like that's kind of far yeah that's not scary at all but you know
I get in what you explain it's not like that right you in that situation you're you think you're
gonna die or whatever you know but yeah so that's a natural thing if you're not in the situation you
can't feel it you never can so let's sort of let's write it on top of us pro it's basically
get the standard of understanding up to where it needs to be for me to convey the story you know
that's what we got to watch out for so we care for with that okay then it goes into the right kind
of orientation poor orientation of replacements may seriously affect the fighting ability and
survival chances of men themselves and may also endanger the unit with whom they first serve
for these reasons that leaders of putoan squads and companies should find out exactly what
orientation and training have been given the men and should provide essential orientation on the
spot in so far as practical before sending them into combat if a divisional training plan similar to
that describe below is in operation the problem of inducting new members new men into smaller units
is much simplified and lower unit orientation can be modified accordingly then there's an effective
an effective training system described our division has received thousands of replacements since
it first since it's first combat experience enormity more than 90% of these replacements have been
infantry many of the replacements came into the division lacking confidence in their ability and
paralyzed by the apprehension and gendered by loose talk before and upon their rival exact
guys are scared shitless sometime ago we started a course of instruction for our replacements
they last two and a half days and is conducted by battle experienced personnel particular emphasis
is placed upon how to live in a foxhole development of an aggressive attitude the use of
fragmentation grenade anti-takernade and bazooka throughout the course these men are trained in groups
of 12 they are later assigned to organizations by these same groups you know what I'll tell people about
is it close out here by saying we we found that this course of instruction gives replacements
much greater self confidence it debunks the notions that they have picked up in the rear
the course has definitely improved not only the morale but also the fighting ability of our
replacements who expect to continue the plan for all replacements to come into the division you know
what else you gotta tell people is like oh you're gonna be nervous but it's okay you're gonna be nervous
it's no big deal everyone's nervous no big deal it's fine that helps a lot because I've seen
this with fighters they get nervous and they don't know what nervous feel like even a really
experienced athletes that might have wrestled or they might have you know boxed or they might
have done smokers they might even have a decent MMA record but now they're going in the UFC
and they get nervous for the first time and they don't know what they don't know that feeling
and all of a sudden they think it's bad yeah something's wrong and you gotta say hey listen
oh you're feeling a little like queasy right now feeling some butterflies that's good
that's your body putting your blood into your muscles instead of to your stomach it's all good
common failings says a successful third army rifle company commander
the following failings are common among replacements they must be strictly and promptly eliminated
if excessive casualties are to be avoided and combat efficiency obtained lack of ordinary discipline
saying yeah instead of saying yes sir jumping at the sound of every outgoing or incoming
artillery show we acted like we were like straight up nom like that's in a
body like with the guys would show up and sometimes there'd be outgoing artillery from camp or body
it's outgoing we like we're all this hard to work that's what's fun with that that's what
I was gonna ask like is that a thing because like you know when you first encounter gunfire even
if it's like you know the guy next year whatever shooting outgoing you know as we say it can
startle you if you don't hear that all the time it's so loud so I'll be like this at the gun
range bear with me I know so at the gun range you know when you first go in you start hearing
the boom and then you know you got a little jump you know but after a while you go if you
time do whatever it's like you don't jump at all but then let's say you take your friend and
say it's his first time or something like that first time long time whatever and you see him jump
and then is that a thing like ah you jump you're kind of you know you're gonna get startled I mean
you'll get startled but you do get used to it yeah fully but what I'm saying is let's say mean
you go to the gun range somewhere or you know corn out or whatever and like boom you know
shots fired whatever like down range or whatever and I like jump are you gonna tease me is that
the culture you know kind of like like why are you jumping for you know kind of thing
you're asking if I'm gonna tease you yeah answers yes that's kind of a universal thing
yeah yeah but but you do get used to it but still like I startling noise but you get you get used
I mean we shoot a tawn in the sealed teams oh yeah just like so much yeah it makes sense and again yeah
I you know I haven't shot an a ton in the sealed teams but when I go to the range it's the same
thing on a different scale where yeah when you first go in you're like boom or when like you're
about to shoot in here the next you shoot you like oh you know you know did my gun go for whatever
it's like a joke so I hear so I hear that question I hear my gun my gun my gun this is not
very reassuring but you know I just hear and then but then after a while it doesn't affect you
it's no figure that's natural regardless of the environment you know did Jason Gardner tell
that story on the podcast where the guy they were doing a debrief they're doing a debrief so
Jason Gardner's like at T5 and they're doing a debrief after like a CQC kill house run or something
and this young officer standing there during the debrief and he just cracks off a round like
during the debrief supposed to be cleared safe he cracks off around it goes between two of the
guys they're standing in a circle and he cracks off around and the dude had like an out of body
experience and he looks up at the group and he says he was decarking it he says he was decarking
it as if it was him that's one of my favorites stories from Gardner dude because that tells you how
people get crazy they they do something and they think that it wasn't even there he's making
excuse for a person that is someone else he was decarking it so there you go jumping at the sound
of every outgoing or incoming artillery shell here's another good one stoner was stoner's
tasking it was going through CQC training and this guy threw a crash into a room and it like
he threw a crash into the room and then went in the room and then like backed out because he
scared the crash because it's something weird like that where the guy was basically scared of the crash
and so stoner was watching and so stoner was like they get done with the run and so he was like
hey come with me and stoner got like seven crashes in his pocket and he went into like a small closet
and he goes and he starts talking to the guy all normal and like like hey you know I just want to
talk and as he's pulling the crash out just like undoes it and pulls the pin and just drops it
at their feet and continues talking totally normal just like oh man he does that seven times
and then at the end of whatever he was saying to me goes hey by the way don't be scared of crashes
they're not gonna hurt you oh man wait so are they what do you mean I mean okay they can't
hurry got it but a crash just go bang I mean what you hold in your hand if you hold your hand
it could hurt yeah yeah so he just didn't admit anything yeah it doesn't admit anything it's like
a big firecracker basically yeah I mean and look you don't want to put a firecracker
next to your hand or next to your eye but they're not gonna hurt you yeah I mean you crash each
other all the time so I always thought that was a good lesson learned from stoner to that dude
probably not great for his hearing but oh oh well unwillingness to use the rifle many
have been told never to fire without direct orders for fear of revealing positions lack of pride in
self organization or work poor physical condition a tendency to bunch together when in danger I
wrote about that in leadership strategy and tactics not just from a battlefield but also from a
mental status we all just want to like crowd each other we get we get we feel comfort being next to
each other don't freezing under fire slavin slavinliness in care of equipment lack of skill with the
rifle or other infantry weapons fear of the night ignorance of squad formations ignorance of
field sanitation and of personal hygiene combat comment replacement to exhibit these deficiencies
usually have usually not had the advantage of such training system as described above
so think about how you're indoctrinating your people you can probably do a better job of it
the next section is about river crossing as it goes by this whole this is these are tactical things
trying to help people win this war these are tactical things about literally how to cross rivers
very cold a read I'm not gonna cover it right now it covers assault boat handling and water safety
and foot bridges and cable bridges and engineer bridges it just goes on all these detailed
sections then it goes into this story about Roger Young and it's got a song that's got a song
with musical notes that you can sing I'm gonna read you the the lyrics in first part of it oh
they've got no time for glory in the infantry oh they've got no use for praises loudly sung
but in every soldier's heart in all the infantry shines the name shines the name of Roger Young
Roger Young who fought and died for the men he marched among so
this story is about a metal of honor recipient and it tells a bit of the story here that
that song is about this metal of honor recipient Roger Young on July 31st 1943 the infantry
company of which private young was a member was ordered to make a limited withdrawal from the
battle line in order to adjust the battalion's position for the night at this time private
young Splatoon was engaged with the enemy in dense jungle where observation was limited the
Splatoon was suddenly pinned down by intense fire from a Japanese machine gun concealed on higher ground
only 75 yards away the initial burst wounded private young as the Platoon started to obey the order
to withdraw private young started creeping toward the emplacement despite a second wound he continued
his heroic advance attracting enemy fire and answering with rifle fire I'm close to his objective
he began throwing hand grenades and while doing so he was hit again and killed private
young's bold action in closing with this Japanese pill box and thus diverting its fire
permitted his platoon to disengage itself without loss and was responsible for several enemy
casualties like I said Roger Young was he received the metal of honor for this action and I looked
up I looked up Roger Young it's an interesting story he was from a small town up in Ohio
to play it's called Tiff and Ohio and sometime during high school he was a really good athlete
he was small but he was a really good athlete and sometime in high school he was playing
an either basketball or football he got some weird injury some weird head injury that left him
almost completely deaf and blind like he could see but not really well he could hear but not really
well and he was worried about being able to get into the regular army so he joined the national
guard and he was like a really good soldier despite the fact that he couldn't see very well
and he couldn't hear very well and before this this assault in New Georgia and this island
in New Georgia which is in the Solomon Islands before this assault he had been advanced in rank
and he went to his leadership and requested a demotion because he felt like he was putting his
guys at risk because he couldn't see well enough and he couldn't hear well enough and at first
they thought he was just trying to get out of the you know he's just trying to not do this do this
assault and he said no I'm doing the assault I'm doing the assault but I shouldn't be in charge of
anyone because I can barely see and I can barely hear and they said okay Roger that they
demoted him so he wasn't in charge of a squad anymore and he just became a rifleman
went out there and saved his guys
next section's called patrol pointers
commanders and staffs as well as troops should be made to realize the amount of detail
essential to proper preparation of a patrol for each mission and precise the fact that the
patrol leader must be given the means to end time to accomplish his mission how often do we actually
think about what where it's tasking people with you got to realize what you're asking people with
what time it's going to take how much time they need to prepare for
contact with the main force leaders of flank and security or security patrols should be
impressed with the importance of maintaining contact with the main force at all times
loss of contact has often proved disastrous so you have to maintain communications
the opposite extreme there we got a little dichotomy going here the opposite extreme however
can also have serious results one patrol leader over zealous about maintaining contact
cause the attack to involve the main body and develop into a major action for which the latter
was not prepared so this guy kept everyone so close that by the time they did the assault the main body
got caught up in the assault as well so there's a dichotomy you got a balance
patrol leadership strictest discipline must be maintained during a patrol operation
rigid control should be exercised to eliminate unnecessary noise talking sneezing and most
important ill-advised firing all movement must be regulated to take full advantage of conditions such
as rainstorms temporary obscuring of the moon by clouds etc so this is what we got to remember
when we say strictest discipline has to be maintained and control if you and I are in a patrol
and you're in the back of the patrol and I'm the year of the rear security and I'm the PL
I'm the patrol leader and I'm number two so there's 14 18 22 guys between us how do I control what
you're going to do? I can't and if you see something that makes you nervous you can start shooting
you know you might start making a call you might be doing dumb things why is that because you're
dumb no it's because I'm a bad leader because I didn't explain to you what the parameters
were of what we're doing I didn't explain to you why we're doing what we're doing I didn't
explain to you the dangers of shooting your rifle if you weren't sure of what was happening
so when they say control don't think of it like oh I've got to sit there and tell everyone exactly
what to do you're going to really lose then what you have to do is you have to utilize
powerful and and and well executed decentralized command that's what control is
back to the book one patrol had almost completed its mission when its presence and location
were revealed to the enemy through an unguarded movement by one of the members this betrayal
nullified the entire effort of that particular patrol patience is of the utmost importance in patrolling
that's true the success or failure of a patrol depends in the final analysis upon the
qualities of leadership possessed by the patrol leader in most cases the commanders have selected
their best officers and NCOs to perform in his duty leadership is what makes a patrol successful
leadership
organizing professional patrols this is an interesting combat concept some commanders have
gone so far as to organize permanent patrol groups whose principal function is to furnish
personnel for battle missions the officer selected for these groups are volunteers the most
aggressive tough and rugged officers in the unit they are permitted to select from the unit
men who possess the same qualities after a period of intensive training in scouting patrol in
battle drill and physical hardening the patrol group is attached to the unit headquarters
from which it receives its mission so he's talking look you can make a little element that's
made of your best guys fatigue and strain and dirt by battle patrols make it impracticable
to assign them more than one major mission every two or three days upon completion of a mission
the men should be moved to a rear location fed rested and prepared for the next what I say is
interesting about this is what do you have in your company that's a duty or a mission or a task
that maybe it's such a such importance that you put together a little hit team and they get good at it
and they do it all the time and you give them the support and you give them the training that's a
very sensible thing to think about now it doesn't mean you have to exclude everybody else because
I can have a hit team of four people that do presentations to clients that doesn't mean
I send two other guys you know occasionally I throw this guy throw this guy throw this guy
so other people learn and maybe they spend some time in the hit team but it's an interesting
concept and a good one to make someone a professional at that particular part of the duty
I mean you're a football player that's like what football is right specialty
essentially right yeah I mean it didn't used to be that way
used to be like hey what we're gonna play football everybody's playing yeah we're just playing football
yeah now it's like I'm only going out with this plays app that's an interesting way to look at
yeah only one this plays app yeah I mean there's some people I don't only play one play
yeah kicker kicker a wedge breaker something that can be kind of versatile
yeah you're right specialty probably there is this guy actually he was a whiter seever but
what the heck was his name he played at you eight trade he was just well and he was a whiter seever
for sure and he did some things or whatever but it was marginal compared to what his specialty was
was blocking field goals and puns he's on the outside because he could run real fast if that's got
a team yeah he yes he had the instinct he was just so yeah the instinct and his speed he was a
fast guy in the team so the way he could just like get his rod and rebounding yeah yeah
he was in his rod but I mean it's the scenario is a little bit different because it's not like
they're like hey we need to call the rebounder you know then it's running and I was just playing
okay some same but this guy hey they're about to kick a field goal a freaking what the heck was
his name Matt oh man they're gonna be mad at me for not remembering that so this guy had good
instincts to get that hand on the ball speed instincts you know what's weird about this is he must have
been really good to actually be identified as that guy yep totally was he was famous for that so it was
like the team was like kind of known for that like hey buckle up when we kick field goals or puns
like this guy's coming so there was time they got to the point where they would stack that side wherever
he was which is dangerous to do because you open up the other side for other guys but bro it's
that important that's so good that's so good the specialized skill he had developed you know
there's something to be said about this concept and specializing and focusing on something
I was watching a thing about Wayne Gretzky and when he was like he would sit there and watch hockey
games as a kid and while he was watching the hockey game he would trace the puck like with a pen
on the on the on like a piece of paper like he draw hockey ring and then he would sit there and
trace where the puck went where to go the whole time and then when the game was over three
periods later he would look at the where his marks were on this piece of paper and start to think
that's where the puck is this is where the puck is most time this is where I need to be
and same with Dennis Rodman he would know where different shooters on his team what kind of spin
they put on the ball and he'd be able to assess where that ball was gonna go where's the highest
chance of that happening that's what he focused on so if you can do that with a team and you can
get a team focused on a particular item they're gonna excel at it it's a good concept and the
comment here says the presence of a professional patrol group in a unit should not be considered
a complete solution to the patrolling problem nor should it operate to curtail the training of individual
riflemen and scouting of patrolling right this doesn't mean you got rodents and now no one else
needs to work on their rebounding the professional groups should be used for difficult or
special missions while normally normal with trying continues as well now this section that I'm about
to read this is kind of this is one of the ones where when I read these for the first time I was like
this one's kind of it's a good debrief because it's a failure and they actually debrief a mission here
this section is called how not to patrol and it's got notes in it a six army report includes
this account of an unsuccessful patrol action in New Guinea those some members of the patrol
exhibited splendid courage and initiative the mission was not accomplished in casualties were high
the negative results of this patrol action were doing large part to several violations of basic
patrol principles as pointed out below a map of the area shown on the opposite page
so the terrain that they're dealing with there's a section on terrain the coastal flat northwest
river there's a river and the way the river is broken out the rivers covered with
kunei grass two to five feet hot feet high interspersed with wooded areas traveling as difficult
and exhausting trees in the wooded areas are not close together but the underbrushes,
dense and visibility limited so you already know this is freaking horrible this is hard
terrain to get through a track paralleling the beach is about eight feet wide and clear of underbrush
along the beaches of four to eight foot embankment suitable for cover against small arms fire from
inland the width of the river varies from 15 feet in some places to 35 feet feet in others
its current is swift the stream bread is rocky and relatively shallow except for the main channel
which at the time of this patrol action was more than six feet deep as a result of recent rains
so the way this is set up there's like this they're on an island they got the ocean
it's a beach there's an outpost that's to the south end outpost a and then there's a river mouth
and this patrol goes across the river to enemy territory and they've got these various locations
a is the outpost and across the river you got this coconut plantation you got a perimeter that
gets set up and you got a little village up there and they've got all these routes that go in and out
route k they take in route l one element takes out route and another element takes out so
there's a lot going on in this in this patrol and I don't want to get too wrapped around trying
to explain like exactly what happened without the visuals but the patrol consisted of a rifle
between reinforced by two sixty millimeter mortar squads one intelligence man a radio operator an
eight man second lieutenant why the platoon leader was in command first lieutenant x from wise company
was attached to the patrol as observer and coordinator comment the higher commander keeps
the accomplishment of the mission in mind when he selects the patrol leader the more important
the mission the more careful his selection must be a good leader should have judgment initiative
courage endurance and be a highly skilled leader the attachment of lieutenant x as coordinator
not only divided responsibility but also indicated a doubt in the commander's mind as to wise
ability to lead the patrol so you've got you've got this second lieutenant that's going out there
in command but you put a first lieutenant with him it doesn't make any sense and that's what
they're that's what their common is you're kind of you're kind of throwing two people if you
don't trust one guy to run the mission don't don't do it it's just a rifle platoon why
you send in two officers out there do you not have confidence one of them and if that's the
case why you send in about there important thing to think about and what does it do to the minds
of the troops hey we there's the boss cool oh wait now we got another boss wait a second why we
get two bosses the mission the mission the patrol is across the river in vicinity of the
battalion outpost reconwear to the coastal area south of this village and destroy any enemy
found right so there you go but i'm gonna read that again the mission of patrol is to cross the
river in the vicinity of the battalion outpost do reconnaissance of the coastal area
and destroy any enemy found and it says here comment the mission assigned by the higher commander
to the patrol leader must be specific and unmistakable indefinite missions invite confusion casualties
and failures one patrol cannot be expected to to execute efficiently a number of missions and by the
way they're quoting field manuals for this that's FM 2175 reconnaissance patrols are used primarily
to secure information maintain contact with the enemy or observe terrain they avoid unnecessary combat
and accomplish the mission by stealth reconnaissance patrols engage in fire fights only when
necessary to accomplish their mission order protect themselves so you see the dichotomy here
we want you to re-conocense but we want you to destroy any enemy that you find that's two different
things that's saying i want you to fight someone and run away from them at the same time
a combat patrol executes missions which they which may require fighting to accomplish or to help
accomplish every combat patrol secure information as a secondary mission then here's the comment
this patrol had been given two primary missions reconnaissance and combat without any indication
as to which has priority prioritize next to we need to know what the priority is the directive to
destroy any enemy found in the area if taken as the primary mission will preclude successful
will preclude successful operation as a reconnaissance patrol the mission should have been
either combat with reconnaissance as a secondary mission or reconnaissance alone in which case the
patrol would engage in combat only to the extent necessary to complete its reconnaissance mission so
think about that when you're assigning someone a mission make sure they understand what the
damn mission is and don't assign them two missions that are opposed to each other and when you do
assign people two or three missions or tasks or projects make sure they know what the priority
mission is what the priority project is the patrol departed out of the outpost at 10 15 leaving
a 160 millimeter mortar squad to furnish fire support a rope secured of both banks were used to
help put the patrol way across the stream by 11 15 personnel and equipment had crossed and
we're waiting for scheduled artillery concentration before moving forward at 11 30 80 rounds of 105
was fired after completion of the artillery fire the patrol reconnoiided along the route to the beach
except for the killing of three japs by the rear point no contact was made and the trip was on
eventful okay at 1405 the patrol arrived at sea which is they they basically patrol from the
outpost which is on the beach inland a little bit and to the north and then they get to the beach
up north and they set up a perimeter that's the point sea that they're talking about
for purposes of command and control the patrol was divided into three sections
consisting respectively of second lieutenant y and ten men the platoon sergeant and 13 men
and first lieutenant x and 20 men so now we're dividing
and the comment is actually command and control were not improved by this organization as was
demonstrated later lieutenant y in addition to commanding the patrol was also commanding one of the
sections lieutenant x as a loop as a section leader was now under the command of his junior lieutenant
so if you ever heard me say you probably have if you want to be in charge of everything you want
to be in charge of nothing so when you're supposed to be in charge of a patrol and then you take
charge of a section you're not going to be able to control everything you're going to be focused on
the the squad or the section that you're leading so that's why you have subordinate leadership so
they can look down and in and run that little element and you can look up and out and see what
the whole team is doing together and you can mutually support each other and cover and move for each other
at this time radio communications with the battalion commander at outpost was established
however radio soon went out did not function thereafter contact the first contact with the
enemy came shortly after the reorganization had been completed about twenty japs with armed armed
with automatic weapons attacked the perimeter from the southwest apparently this group had followed
the trail made by the patrol in the brief ensuing scrimous teneming were killed and then remained
dispersed okay they do okay through that one patrol then move southeast along the coastal
track toward coconut grove at b so now they were far up north in the perimeter now they start moving
south towards this coconut grove when advanced element of the patrol reached the northwest edge
of the coconut grove they received heavy machine gun fire rifle mortar hand grenade fire
from their front and right flank so this is a bad scenario cross fire three members of the
patrol were wounded it was estimated that about fifty enemy fighters were in the grove
first lieutenant ex assumed command and because they had a fire order the patrol to return to the
former beach at position c to the wounded man had been it had to be assisted after their arrival
so now they go back to this perimeter that they had after their arrival at c the firing stopped
and the temporary perimeter was organized so they they get back the regroup they got two wounded
lieutenant ex finding them into closely grouped ordered two sections to move forward further inland
neither section moved as far as lieutenant ex intended so he signaled them to move further
so their inner perimeter lieutenant ex says hey push out from the perimeter a little bit they
don't really move far enough so he gives him a signal to move further this signal was interpreted
to mean that the sections were to return to the river via separate routes as had been discussed
earlier when the patrol first reorganized it see because both sections moved out leaving lieutenant
ex by himself with his twenty men so now we have completely we have three different sections out here
three different elements out there and you do not want to split forces in the first place and you
definitely want to split forces into three groups and you definitely don't want to split forces
into three groups and you all wounded and you've already been attacked by a fifty man enemy force
this is crazy the comment the patrol must be directed regulated and controlled at all times
patrol members must be familiar with all prescribed signals the leader may arrange for a few
additional signals for special purposes in this instance and in this instance the loss of control
can undoubtedly be attributed to the poor chain of command in the patrol organization to sudden change
in command from lieutenant y to lieutenant ex while the patrol is in and contact with the enemy
and to a failure to reach clear understanding of plans and signals you can see how these little
compounding problems and if you look at your organization if you look at what you're doing inside
of your business what little what little mistakes are you making what little what little things
are you compounding what problems do you have that can be compounding that can lead to disaster
is it communication is it chain of command are you not mutually supporting each other
do people not understand what the mission is you see this applies to everything that we do
with any kind of team the trip back the platoon sergeant with his 13 men followed the route m
so basically they all start going back in different directions they cross the river without incident
and reported back to caught so they get back this first group of 13 guys gets back to the
command post the battalion command post second lieutenant why in his ten men made it wider circuit
and they report back to battalion an hour later without having contacted the enemy
okay so we're doing pretty good but first lieutenant ex realized that the other two sections
had gone he proceeded to the river to another route and he's got the wounded guys
one of the wounded died and route the body was carried the section reached the one point on the
river without difficulty but found the point in the river that they got the river was 30 feet wide
and the current was very swift and it would have been dangerous even for excellent swimmers
and attempt to reach the original crossing site was unsuccessful because the enemy was in position
because the enemy would they try to go back where they originally crossed that's where they
try and go back to and guess what the enemy is waiting for in there obviously they know how hard
it is crosses river they know the crossing points patrol should return from up this is comment patrol
should return from a mission over a different route to avoid ambush alternate crossing points
could have been determined by reconnaissance before the combat patrol was sent out it appears that
the enemy allowed the patrol to cross the river unaposed and planned to ambush it by closing in behind
so now lieutenant ex goes back so they get they get fought away from the place where they originally
crossed he sets up a perimeter anticipation of attack by the enemy a sergeant was then sent out
with the mission of crossing the river and reporting to the battalion commander for help the next
section is called the rescue meanwhile the battalion commander received a situation report from the
leader of the section which returned acting upon this information the battalion commander had formed a
group of 20 men and had proceeded to the vicinity of this island and this is another thing that screwed
up and when you see it on the terrain where this element wants to cross over they're going to
cross the river but they're going to cross on to like a little mini island where they'll have to
do another freaking crossing but they don't know that because they haven't done recon.
believing that this to be the balance of the patrol also so this group was preparing to cross the river
to aid the remainder of patrol when they observed lieutenant wine his section crossing back
and so now the battalion thinks oh okay they're coming back now so we're good so they all go back
to they all go back to the battalion and then the battalion figures out the battalion commander figures
out oh wait you didn't even bring back all the guys so two groups have come back but there's a third
group out there now the battalion commander's like trying to figure out what to do so he goes back out again
and again this is the battalion commander this is a very senior guy going out to execute this rescue
mission in order to evacuate and they link up in order to evacuate the wounded it was decided that
a rope must be used several attempts by lieutenant extra cross the river with the rope or unsuccessful
finally but the battalion commander and four others grasp hands and formed a human chain out into
the water lieutenant X removed his clothes and tied the rope to his waist from a point upstream he
plunged in the river and was successful in reaching the hand of one of the men in the human chain
as he was carried downstream by the current as the men in the human chain with the aid of others
on the bank were pulling lieutenant X on the rope ashore an enemy machine gun opened up
from the northwest bank although the rope was eventually secured on the island one man had been killed
and five wounded including the battalion commander the wounded were evacuated to the outpost
where the battalion commander died within an hour. Comment although his bravery was commendable
the in invisability of a tying commander participating in a patrol action is obvious.
Subsequently, back to the event subsequently the enemy subjected the island to heavy machine gun
and mortar fire however the men on the island this is that little island of the river however the
little island the men in the island stayed in position to cover the crossing of the remaining
17 men on the far bank one of the two wounded men with this group of the 17 was successfully
evacuated to the other was swept away and drowned while trying to cross.
Of the 15 men only of the 15 remaining men only eight succeeded in getting across the river
before the japs closed in these men said they had been subjected to heavy mortar and grenade fire
and it was believed that the others were killed. It's only eight of them make it.
It is believed that all of the un-injured men in the group could have crossed the river before the
enemy closed in on them had they not chosen to stick it out in hopes of getting the wounded
across. So there you go these guys were brave they wanted to stay with their friends and they
end up losing just about everybody because they're trying to get these wounded guys across.
The comment the patrol cost a difficult obstacle and moved rapidly deep into hostile territory
where the enemy situation was obscure. So start this whole this whole thing. You start off by
going into enemy territory and in order to get into enemy territory you're going across a freaking
river. We better have a damn good plan. We don't know what the enemy situation is up there
and how deep are we going to go? Like you know what you're doing in a situation like that
I call charge you put really good fire support on one side of the river and say,
guys you're going to go go cross go ahead. If something happens we got you. We got mortars we got
heavy machine guns it will be able to get you back. And by the way we're going to put a rope around
the first guy. So when you go across the river some happens we're going to pull you right back.
That's covered move by the way. And then you don't go on a lengthy patrol without good support.
There was apparently very little reconnaissance on the part of the patrol and it was unaware of the
enemy strength and the immediate vicinity. The patrol is of sufficient strength to fight its way
out against the superior number of enemy but when control was lost and the patrol was disorganized
and split up it was susceptible to defeat in detail. And just check this out. If you were on
patrol with me and you saw me give you a hand signal like to go out set up a bit further push out a
little bit further and you saw another hand signal with me from me there would be no part of your
brain that would be thinking I would be telling you to split forces and go back to base. No part
of your brain would think that you would know that I would that I would want to stick together. You
would know that everyone would know that everyone on the team would think hey the only way we're
splitting forces if Jockel comes over and looks at me and says hey we're splitting forces here's
the new plan other than that we're sticking together. That's like an implied commanders intent
from me always. We are sticking together. We will cover move for each other for sure but we're not
going to get separated where we can't mutually support each other that's not a good thing ever.
So what kind of implied intent do you have with your team in your organization that people know
what to do and they won't make mistakes like this? So essentially you're saying like for your
example where that's such a rigid rule that you have and it's established like that's kind of the
Ethan like if if Lave heard me on the radio say that could split force. He wouldn't be like hey
Jockel just told me to split force he back with something something's wrong. Yeah, I can't
he would make sense to him. He'd be like okay hey Jockel say again hey Jockel I'm going to
come and talk to you because if you're still you've never remotely said anything like hey let's split
up and see how we do. Right. Right. Let's get to for me to say hey set up a good cover position.
Cool all day long. Hmm. Provide cover moved to high ground. Any of those things but to say split forces
it would be he would need to he would ask questions right and you're saying that's because
there are certain things that are when you see he said implied right but there's certain things that
are just this is what we're starting to let me tell you one of them is cover move. If you get
it's cover move is what I live by it's a first law of combat right. First law of combat is cover
move. If I'm telling you to go away from me we can't cover move anymore and life life here's
that goes away. Second, Jockel doesn't want me to cover move that's crazy something's going on
that I need to understand or it's a miscommunication. He's not like oh cool later. No if I
elates one of the principles of combat leadership and it's not going to happen. Hmm.
So what are those principles inside your organization? Do you have them established correctly
that people know what to do and if a weird signal comes through they go away to say what are you
talking about? This doesn't make any sense. You know like Dave Burke gets a request from a client
and he built it. Yeah, you know and I say don't give the client any support. But if you would be
you say wait a second no something's going on here. You know something's not clear there's a
miscommunication because we are here to support our clients we're here to teach them leadership.
We're here to give them all the leadership tools that we can. And Dave knows that implicitly
so if I will say don't give them any support. Wait a second I gotta go talk to Jockel
about there's something going on. Yeah kind of like if you lost your temper on somebody it would be like
something would be. If you wouldn't yeah wouldn't compete. Really you'd be like oh that must
be like a demonstration or something you know. Check. Before we jump this next section that section
right there was the section that I kind of wanted to that kind of caught me because it's a very
good debrief of a little you know you read about big battles and we've covered many big battles
and of course we get the gist of the battle we get the experience of battle from one man's vision
but to get it after action debrief like that and you can imagine how this is this is just a one
little tiny example one little tiny example and and that's why when I when I started this thing
often I said you know why do I cover these because I never heard these lessons every freaking
military leader should read that after action report where a bunch of guys get killed a bunch of
guys get wounded and why do you just have happened it's so clear why it happens they give you the
reasons you have multiple chains of commands you have guys splitting forces there's unclear
communication like you should know these things you should get taught these things
and look what else you're facing out there you got your enemy right what else you got
the river the river oh that's doesn't sound like a big deal but people drowned yeah
this is not this isn't like a little stream this is a river where people drowned
yeah and yeah and that's the kind of the assumption for us outsiders where you know we think
okay they got you know they got this many guys on their side and we got this many guys but we got this
and we got that like we have these tanks we got that you know it's like kind of nuts against nuts
kind of a thing but you consider not at all there's there's like we need food we need to get across
that river yeah they're all this stuff that's kind of like jungle I'm just the jungle just getting through
there yeah just what about our weapons they're getting you know sand in them they're getting
water in them there's raining yeah we're we're our feet are rotting we're starving by the way
we need water we have this intrigued like what is going on yeah and by the way there's a bunch of
Japanese suicidal fighters that want to kill us all yeah they're never saving private Ryan right
where they kind of you know they they they they they come up on the beach and you know everyone
guys are jumping in the water whatever and then a couple guys they just drowned like it's like you
know when you you see that opening shot and you consider it in real life or whatever it's kind
of like okay what are we about to get into this is gonna be scary machine guns you know
tricking Germans bombs all this stuff right but then oh wait a second what about the actual water
we have to go through like that's gonna kill some of us and imagine this you go and you make a movie
and you actually go into the horror and panic of each individual that jumps into the water with
64 pounds of gear they're not a great swimmer they go to the bottom panicking fighting and drowning
and dying a horrible death and that's happening all over the place on that day and then meanwhile
if you survive if you somehow get your shit together and get your gear off and now you get to
the beach you're getting freaking strafed by enemy elevated bunker machine gun positions
yeah check last section of volume seven is called OP and CP security
observation post and command post security this is such a good start it says even at this late date
needless casualties delays and expenditures of effort are being caused by breaches of OP and
security rules so what he's saying is like look we've been fighting this war for three and a half
four years and even right now we have to explain what to do how to maintain security
because we're taking unnecessary casualties because people aren't falling the proper protocols
the inevitable results of of security carelessness are pointy illustrated by three following incidents
carelessness cost lives cost lives reported by technician fifth grade earnest j-langie
130 fifth infantry we stayed in one CP for two weeks without drawing a shell and it felt quite
secure for we had been told that the enemy hadn't been shelling in that particular vicinity
for the past thirty days however a few of the men either forgot or disregarded their instructions
they watched some white towels and shirts and hung them out the dry and effective signal for the
enemy artillery fire upon our command post three of our men were killed in the shelling that followed
this breaches security learning security the hard way reported by an infantry battalion commander
after being sheld out of two CP locations the first time with severe casualties we reorganized
a sadly depleted CP group and opened for business in another building a third story battalion
OP and the same building could be reached only by passing a large open window on a stair landing
since the entire village was under enemy observation and direct fire it was necessary to crawl
past this open window to ensure that this would be done a century was stationed in the stairway so
there's a window you have to crawl when you go by this window and it's so important that they put
a guy sitting by the window going hey freaking crawl buddy hey you crawl all went well until it was
discovered that the sergeant major had just covered the opening with a large sheet of tin
so that the century could be released for work with the wire team so he needs the century to go do
something else so he says hey just put the speed to tin up against the window this might seem like a
weird question or maybe what's a century guard yeah a guard as opposed to like you could it's
literally a guard is that like a rank like a position or someone like a guard guard tonight so
now you're a century tonight like that you could you could use the word guard and century same word
same okay synonym yeah the century might have a little bit more tone of military century as opposed to a
guard of a prison so a centuries more like someone that's standing watch got you so what if you guys are
out on a mission and it's like a two-day mission whatever and then it's like okay someone's got
to stand watch and it's jocco and you're a Navy SEAL straight up are you the century for that night
kind of we think we would use the term watch like hey I got watch as opposed to saying hey you're on
century duty in the in the navy you generally call it just watch so even hey who's got like in the
barracks I'll be like who's got fire watch or that you have watch because you stand and watch
sections on the ship but technically you're a century but you're well like I said it's it's
leaning towards well we would call century duty even in the in the navy century duty we'd probably
just call it watch but in other outfits probably some century yeah let's say you seem to be the
yep okay so and you could put obviously this century was all he was doing was telling people what
do hey get down when you go across that window so he wasn't actually protecting the perimeter
he was protecting the troops from doing something stupid yeah it was a guard in a specific capacity
there you go in the century so they put this big tin sheet up we abandon the CP and hasten
moved to an already established alternate CP the only remaining location in town but last man
had hardly left the building before was taken under direct artillery fire and rapidly disintegrated
this incident thoroughly impressed our personnel with the folly of signaling OP and CP locations
to the enemy by altering the outward appearance of the building after occupancy that particular
error was not repeated they I just got lucky that thing and I bet someone was like great
sergeant major what'd you do you put a piece of tin up do we got to get out of here you're an idiot
sergeant major with all due respect you're an idiot and how the enemy knows we're here and we got to
get out of here and the last the last section here one mistake is too many
reported by the commanding general first infantry division officers this one is so important
officers visiting the front line units should be warned against actions that might reveal to the
enemy the locations of our installations in one case an observation post was located in a
wrecked building inside walls of the rooms had been camouflaged to give a dark background
instruments had been set well back in the rooms and observers were careful to move about only in
the shadows all went well until the day some visiting officers stopped by they moved about freely
even leaning out of the windows and they're with their field glasses with an half an hour
the building was completely destroyed by enemy fire one of our observers was killed
that's the situation when you roll down to the front lines and you think you're just going to be cool
yeah and in my mind I'm thinking I'm not even thinking that they were being stupid
because they might just be being stupid but they might also be like hey I'm cool oh
I'm not gonna hide I'm not gonna walk around I'm not gonna hide my shadows
late late late's got a funny story about going to the government center for the first time in
downtown Ramadi and they like pulling the humbese and they see marines sprinting from one location to another
you know like so they did just do what they were doing and like everything cool like yeah
there's snipers around here you've got to move it you know like Roger that
but that that wraps up this this particular volume volume seven and you know that last little
section it's these moments these little moments where we slack off where we get complacent just for a minute
just for a minute and that's when we get crushed we can't let that happen we need to always stay
on the path speaking of the path echo Charles is a day as one old record podcast speed
it's good this book handle that some sections that I didn't cover because
look I find leadership lessons everywhere but when we're talking about using cable foot
bridge to cross rivers I found a little bit it was really a stretch yeah it was really a stretch
I kept it to the leadership principles good so there we go all right how do we how do you stay
on the path well part of this when you know only hear these accounts and go over these field
manuals and learn these lessons from the past from books whatever it is important to even just
remember to pay attention to the lessons because you can get caught up in the story man yeah like I was
kind of concerned about those guys with guys human bridge link chain whatever I was concerned
you know but there is a lesson that if you don't pay attention you might miss it so that's
important too so yes we're staying capable for sure we're reading you know listening all that stuff
we are reading I know I'm reading I'm not sure how much reading you're doing right now read
either way for staying physically capable as well we're training I'll tell you that
nonetheless we've got to keep ourselves healthy and capable that's important I think concur
so yeah so when you're on this path you might need some supplementation it helps
oh it definitely helps yeah big time keep your immunity up keep your functionality up keep your strength
up keep your endurance up keep your cognitive attitude up up yeah we'll be good time let it go down see
that's no good for nobody you got people depending on you including yourself so mostly yourself
mostly yourself it's real good be my others I guess we can't have anyone relying on loss if we
can't rely on ourselves that's what I'm saying that's what I'm trying to say what if you're at a
capability two scenarios one you're at a capability health level 10 and then the other scenario
you're at a health capability level five you got let's say two kids depending on you you got
let's say maybe an employee depending on you maybe it has I don't know so someone else depending on you
you want to be level five you want to be level ten let's face it that's not even a really good
question well obviously answer right but that's but that's not the point that I'm making a point
I'm making is some of us we're just like I'm fine with my number five you're not doing
nobody no favors by being at number five no at level ten you are doing a lot of people and there's
a weird thing here some people would rather let let themselves down then let other people's down
some people would rather than care about someone else but they would not want to let themselves down
either one of those let's not let anyone down let's get that level ten and keep it
see what I'm saying slipping off the path and not getting back onto the path is doing
no good for nobody and you've got people depending on you you got to you got to do the right thing
yeah let's do it all right yeah supplementation is far supplementation goes
jacquoise supplementation jacquo fuels called jacquo fuel jacquo dot com if you want to get it
you have very reliable very high quality stuff this will keep you on the path this will help you
straight up so first thing we will go into is discipline and discipline go supplementation for
your brain and body here's the thing the days of poison energy drinks which is the thing I get it
I get it energy you know this thing but you got other bad stuff in there the days of drinking that
can stuff art are gone no no no need nope not anymore it's a big deal now it the when you
drink an energy drink now yeah it's good for you it's kind of like a smoke did the desserts right
that's exactly what happened what the desserts is what discipline go does to energy drinks
because let's face it you kind of like the taste of an energy drink you kind of like the fact
that it gets you a little amped what you don't like is you crash what you don't like is it's bad for
you what you don't like is it you get that freaking jitters and what you don't like is you're giving
yourself type two diabetes which also sucks that there's no reason for any that no it's like dessert
you know you you you feel like crap after you eat a big whatever if we can horrible dessert filled
with sugar you know you just have milk yeah easy money yeah you you pay an additional cost for
drinking an energy drink in a traditional sense you want to hear a non-traditional use of
milk that I've been doing so I used to go to this restaurant and they did this thing called
dessert shots have you heard this concept it's just a really small dessert yeah but it's kind of
cool because let's face it you get done with a piece of big prime rib and a Caesar salad and you're
kind of stoked but then you think I kind of want something sweet too but I don't want to get everything
you know whatever big giant dessert so I'm just going to get myself a little
little Sunday shot at this particular restaurant I used to go to back in the day which
is close now unfortunately because it was a damn good restaurant me my wife used to go there
and stone or would come like he would just show up with the third wheel just coming get it hang out
all the time like every time but lately I've been doing like the same thing but I've
been doing shots of moments just maybe a little bit bigger than a shot but just enough where you're like
yeah you know like yeah that would work I think now I'll just keep a monk mixed up in the fridge
oh yeah and just pour a little shot and just get a little hitter mix in some like dark chocolate chunks
you need to get the like the smell of it on that yeah you put that in the shot so you like hit it
and you can jump up the the dark chocolate and do a hitter nice I'm telling because those gourmet
those dessert shots or whatever yeah I heard that you can get a little tray of them or whatever and
it's like yeah one's like a little cup of brownie or something they're just small right so you're
saying so yeah you want to spice it up make it more like gourmet and lavish yeah let me tell you
chocolate yeah I'm here to have a look at how bad it is also don't worry about the days of worrying
about your joints just acting up those days are going to they are yeah I'm telling you stay on
this thing the we got joint warfare mixed with a super krill oil don't kind of worry about that
anything more oil yeah those days are going to good to go good to go also vitamin D3 keep your immunity
yeah which is an important thing maybe you don't think about it every single day but when you start to get
sick little scratchy throw whatever however you get sick you're gonna be you're gonna notice it
and you're gonna wish you had the vitamin D3 so you know don't forget about that kind of stuff
it's important too yeah yeah what what else does get everything into malt malt is the true
protein is sense or in the replacement of a dessert in the form of a dessert yeah let's face it
is real good you can get you can get the drink at at wall wall if you're on the east coast
which is you all been crushing it and going to clear new shelves keep clear them let
them know what's up let them see what's up we're going to Florida we're in Florida actually
when this comes out we're in Florida we're hitting wall wall day also all this stuff you can
get it a vitamin shop also if you want to get it delivered to your house that's going to cost
a lot of money right delivery no actually it's not gonna cost any money it's going to be free
if you subscribe to any of these items so you get your super krill every month you get your
joint warfare every month you get your malt every month so you don't run out and go back in time
to a to a horrible scenario where you wake up achy don't let that happen subscribe free shipping
jockelfield dot com get some also at origin USA this is where you can get American made
goods products and ever like love the word products so like not what is good enough
p uses oh yeah p p hard goods right durable good durable good that's right durable good yeah
well they are durable they aren't fix it so we got to make it denim boots jeans uh
jiu jitsu geese now we're starting to go into the fashion stuff because durable goods is like boots
pants I don't think we're doing fashion anything well I know you'd like to think that but you know
he and i will have something different to say about that nonetheless this good stuff origin USA dot com
all made in America from the beginnings of the makings of the fabric all the way till the to the
durable goods fashionable or not that arrive it's all made in America you can see also jocquazister
called jocquazister and this is where you can get durable t-shirts with discipline equals freedom
right I was running today and there's a guy I'm like running and there's a guy sees me and he's
running the running at each other and he's wearing a uh
natees sweatshirt represent just you know it it just has represent but I know I know what that means
I know that's natees and he sees me and he reaches down like grabs the bottom of the the natees
sweatshirt represent he pulls up the shirt and he's representing wall on the path discipline
equals freedom t-shirt freaking legit so I was like thinking that's freaking that's like a double
double bonus scenario not only is this due down with natees which is fully approved
dude he's also down with the cause which kind of tells me we're aligned with the whole like
that tells me we're aligned like we we we got people you know like we're just aligned that is good
and uh what did you say anything to him I just gave the bone of the ball not gave him a little bit
more than that all that I was like hey you hugged him you hugged him not in hugged him because you were running
but I you know held up my fist and we kind of like high five as past each other yeah freaking legit
what's interesting is like that's the feeling you get whether you're running or not you see
somebody representing in the wild well wild that's face it that's it that's the feeling you get
so if you were representing the wild if you can you can again jockelstore dot com uh we got
discipline equals freedom we got good we got hats we got hoodies there are rash guards on there
we have a subscription situation free shipping on this one too by the way a little bit different
kind of designs more interesting here's the thing wait t-shirt designs yeah it's all shirt
lockers yeah you like the I like the name too here's the thing about the shirt locker for
people because people people are saying hey like can I get that one design those like two months ago
it's a good design for sure we can't that was like if you have the membership you'll get the
design for that month and then it's sort of gone so I'm saying hey I know I know you want the
past one but hey the peach one's gonna be good too so don't get yourself in the situation where you emailing
or on Twitter or whatever same hey can I get that design just sign up now you'll get that design
whoo check I like where you're at uh subscribe to the podcast if you haven't yet also check
out jockel unraveling podcast with Darrell Cooper DC drop a knowledge grounded podcast I talked
to Dean about getting some of those back online warrior kid podcast as well you can also join us
in the underground at the underground on the underground jockel underground dot com it's an alternative
podcast we've been talking about a bunch of wild things on there things that are not quite
jockel podcast material but they're adjacent material amplifying material we've talked about a bunch
of psychology we talk about group dynamics we do talk about leadership we talk about and we and we
be doing Q and A on there as well so the reason we have that is because we don't know what's going
to happen with all of these platforms that we're on and we did get we did get some is it called
censorship we we get fully censored but we got some some warnings on one of the last podcast that we
did about the Armenian genocide so who knows we we can't I know I do know you know who knows I
know I know I know that we can't leave ourselves at the whim of someone having control over what we do
so we created another platform at jockel underground dot com and if you want to help us build
and maintain that platform it's eight dollars and eighteen cents a month there's some layers
behind that but if you want to help us out then do that and you can get this other podcast called
jockel underground you can ask questions and that also prevents us from having to interject
advertisements about pillows and what else you know we've had things things might not need
yeah things if you don't want to hear about probably not yeah when you press play for jockel
podcast you know what you're going to get and you're going to get it fast so hey jackel
jockel and look I look if you can't afford that we're here we're not trying to make like this
we're not trying to leave people out we don't want if you're out there with a freaking
made ds t shirt I was sweatshirt and a and a discipline it was freedom t shirt under your
made ds sweatshirt and you can't afford this we're good we got you covered email assistance
at jockel underground dot com we'll get you taken care of we also have a youtube channel
which I am the assistant director on many of these really good videos and then echo makes
some other ones too as a marginal origin USA has wanted to check out two got some cool stuff on
there check out those youtube channels it's true also psychological warfare the novel tracks the
jockel getting us through our moments of weakness seems repetitive when I say it but it doesn't
it kind of like under values really what it is telling you so some people listen to music
when they work out listen listen to podcasts good all good moves but if you if you on those days
let's face it they do come from time to time we're sitting there really don't feel like doing this
putting this put in the psychological warfare you'll be in you'll be in the game 100% results on
that one by the way I just had to go statistical on your own it's statistical 100% footicide
canvas dot com my brother Dakota Meyer making freaking awesome stuff to hang on your wall that
will also keep you on the path I written a bunch of books final spin I don't know if I'm going
to win this argument with my publisher but I'm trying to get where it says first edition I'm trying
to get it to say first edition and I know there's there's legal requirements about that page
you know it's like copyright stuff so I don't know if I'm going to be able to get away with it but
we're going to try and at a minimum it's going to say first edition it might even say first edition
I've just finished the what they call first pass edits and you're just going through making sure
that you know making sure that the edits are proper make sure that's all good to go and how many edits
do you go I mean I'm going to sorry passes for it's ridiculous but here's the cool thing that book
I'm reading it and I'm freaking loving reading it I'm like and I get the same thing I used to have
this with the way the warrior kid where I'm reading it and I kind of forget that I wrote it because
it's fiction so I didn't live it where you know when I'm reading the extreme ownership or leadership
strategy tactics it's very much me right this is it's me that wrote it but you're kind of
it's a story right that's in my head that's almost a different part of my brain I look it's
obvious I think it's real obvious that it's me that wrote it you know I was on the
Lex free you know Lex freedman yeah I just I just said a podcast with him and he said that I speak
like Russian language like so however the Russian language is which you can kind of guess when you
hear a Russian person speak English you know send location like that kind of thing he says that
I speak English as if I'm a Russian human so that book is definitely written in a very let's say
lean lean methodology but I'm stoked it's coming out if you want to get that first the dish order
it pre-order it of course the the publisher you know they don't understand they're not they're
not gonna print enough and then there's gonna be a little bit of a second edition and then when
when I sign the second edition I'm gonna do it right I'm gonna do it but let's face it I'm
I'm not even saying anything but you're gonna know and I'm gonna know you're gonna know and I'm
gonna know and it's it's it's gonna be uncomfortable we're not gonna like it but when you it's
sort of like when you got that first edition like let's face it we kind of have a connection
so check it out the book is called Final Spin you can pre-order it right now
be the substragian tactics field man with a code evaluation protocol discipline it's freedom
field manual way the warrior kid one two three and four Mikey in the dragons about face by hack worth
extreme ownership that codomy leadership the OGs Ashillan front's my leadership consultancy go to
Ashillan front dot com if you want us to bring these leadership principles into your organization
get us up that's what we do you have fun lime which is revamped
we just released some new courses you can take a course about each chapter of extreme ownership
we get granular on those and we're on there live all the time we're not all the time but
multiple times a week you can ask me whatever question you want go go to efoline.com the
master we're executing Orlando completed completed next up is Phoenix August 17th and 18th
then Las Vegas October 28th and 29th it's on it's on it's on can I declare COVID over I guess I
don't have the power to do that but I can say that I've been doing live events I can say that
people are vaccinated or whatever and we seem to be rapidly approaching the way things used to be
and I'm on board for that you have battlefield I'll let you know the next time that goes down
and if you want to help service members active and retired their families gold star families check
out mark least mom momily she's got an awesome charity organization and one of the primary things
that she does is she gets medical treatments for service members most of them seals one of the
big things she does is is get people these awesome treatments in pure oxygen hyperbaric chambers
they do like month-long treatments pay for the whole thing put people up in hotels they can get it done
it's been hugely helpful to all kinds of people so if you want to help with that she does a
bunch of other things too that's just the tip of the iceberg america's mighty warriors dot org and if you
want more of my historical harrangs or you need more of echoes bewildering babble and you got some today
that opener that opener was you know that opener question what the extreme
undershits bewildered we'll say well if you want more that you can find us on the
web on twitter on the gram and on facebook echoes at equitross and i am at jokwell again thanks to
everyone out there in uniform around the world right now putting all these lessons learned to use
to protect our freedom and the same goes to the people here on the home front our police law enforcement
fire fighters paramedics EMT's dispatchers correctional officers board of patrol secret service
and all first responders thank you for your sacrifices to protect us here at home and that
everyone else out there remember that the first function of leadership is discipline and that discipline
starts with yourself it is us we have to train we have to prepare we have to harden ourselves through
suffering and while it hurts and it does hurt it is that discipline that will ultimately bring us
freedom so go out there and get after it then until next time this is echo and jokko out